Unique ID	Note	Source(s)	Tag	Repeated	[MM/Doc/Object]		ASHP Notes
ohio_1	Abolitionist lawyers challenged the Fugitive Slave Law through the courts using a writ of habeas corpus.	Habeas Corpus, Clark	OH		Doc, MM		PB: I think a middle ground may work: Abolitionist lawyers challenged the FSL through the courts using a writ of habeas corpus.
ohio_2	Many law enforcement officers and judges who objected to the Fugitive Slave Law were compelled to enforce it.	Judge	OH		MM		PB: Not sure about the word "felt" here. They were compelled by law to enforce it. Some chose to break the law others decided not to go against the law.
ohio_3	Alleged fugitives were not allowed to testify in court to prove their freedom.	Judge	OH		MM		
ohio_4	Slavecatchers used newspaper advertisements to track down fugitives from slavery fleeing across state lines.	Runaway Ad	OH		Doc		
ohio_5	Slavecatchers could earn a substantial cash reward for capturning and returning fugitives from slavery.	Runaway Ad	OH		Doc		
ohio_6	Under the Fugitive Slave Law, it was illegal to assist anyone fleeing slavery.	Shopkeeper	OH	mass_11	MM		
ohio_7	Some abolitionists assisted fugitives fleeing slavery by secretly providing shelter and transportation.	Shopkeeper	OH		MM		
ohio_8	Abolitionists used religious texts to challenge the morality of the fugitive slave law.	Bible	OH		Obj		PB: This rewrite seems clearer to me.
ohio_9	The Fugitive Slave Law deprived black prisoners of due process by denying their right to defend themselves in court.	Petition	OH				
ohio_10	All black Northerners were vulnerable to arrest and kidnapping.	Clark	OH	penn_10, mass_3	MM		
ohio_11	Some abolitionists organized rescue attempts to free fugitives from slavery held in jail.	Clark	OH	mass_10	MM		PB: Should we to say "fugitives from slavery"
ohio_12	Professional slavecatchers travelled across the country pursuing and kidnapping black Northerners and sending them into slavery.	Slavecatcher	OH	mass_1, penn_7	MM		
penn_1	Federal Commissioners and Marshalls were responsible for enforcing the Fugitive Slave Law.	Lawman	PA		MM		
penn_2	Under the Fugitive Slave Law, anyone who refused to assist in the capture of an alleged fugitive could be arresed, fined, and/or sued.	Lawman	PA	mass_12	MM		 
penn_3	The Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 was used to arrest and enslave anyone who had escaped slavery, including those who escaped before 1850.	Petition	PA		Doc		PB: Agree
penn_4	Increased presence of armed Marshals and slavecatchers disrupted the lives of white Northerners unaccustomed to seeing the brutality of slavery.	Man with Horse	PA		MM		PB: "irritated Northerners" could be changed to: "outraged some Northerners"
penn_5	Some Northerners quietly overlooked the presence of fugitives in their communities.	Man with Horse	PA		MM		
penn_6	Slaveholders used the Fugitive Slave Law to legally compel the government to assist in the return of people they claimed as slaves.	Gorsuch, Maryland Petition	PA		MM, Doc		
penn_7	Professional slavecatchers travelled across the country pursuing and kidnapping black Northerners and sending them into slavery.	Eliza 	PA	ohio_12, mass_1	MM		PB: The FSL increased the number of free Black Northerners being kidnapped by slavecatchers and illegally shipped South into slavery.
penn_8	Black communities developed mutual self-defense networks to protect one another from kidnapping.	Eliza, Horn	PA		MM, Obj		
penn_9	Local mutual defense networks collaborated with larger urban abolition organizations like Vigilance Committees. 	Eliza 	PA		MM		PB: the language in this note seems a bit obscure. Maybe change to: Local self-defense networks often collaborated with urban abolitionists such as Vigilance Committes.
penn_10	All black Northerners were vulnerable to arrest and kidnapping.	Man with Gun	PA	mass_3, ohio_10	MM		PB: Do we need to emphasize that "All Black Northerners  . . . "
penn_11	Unable to rely on state authorities for protection, fugitives turned to armed resistance to confront slavecatchers.	Man with Gun, corn knife	PA	mass_14	MM, Obj		
penn_12	Many Black Northerners, especially fugitives, moved to Canada to avoid kidnapping and enslavement.	Man with Gun	PA	mass_16	MM		PB: May want to qualify this one: "Many Black Northerners . . ."
penn_13	The Fugitive Slave Law overrode state laws abolishing slavery and prohibiting the return of fugitives from slavery.	Maryland Petition	PA	mass_17	Doc		
mass_1	Professional slavecatchers travelled across the country pursuing and kidnapping fugitives and returning them to slavery.	Broadside	MA	ohio_12, penn_7	Doc		
mass_2 	Abolitionists organized against the law openly and publicly. 	Broadside	MA		Doc		PB: I think this may be owrth keeping
mass_3	All black Northerners were vulnerable to arrest and kidnapping.	Broadside, Weston, Black Abolitionist	MA	penn_10	Doc, MM, MM		
mass_4	Abolitionists used emotional appeal and dramamtic language in their writings to create sympathy for fugitives and enslaved people.	Broadside, Uncle Tom's Cabin	MA		Doc, Doc		PB: dramatic scenarios could be changed to: theatrical dramas or: Abolitionists wrote emotional appeals and performed dramatic plays to create sympathy . . ."
mass_5	Abolitionists appealed to the idea of natural rights to criticize the institution of slavery.	Wedgewood	MA		Obj		
mass_6	Abolitionists were frustrated by the growth of slavery despite their organization against it.	Letter	MA		Doc		PB: Agree can cut
mass_7	Abolitionists were motivated by deeply held moral opposition to the institution of slavery.	Weston	MA		MM		PB: Agree can cut
mass_8	Abolitionists were divided between non-violent opposition and forceful resistance to the law.	Weston	MA		MM		
mass_9	In the 1840s and 1850s, the extension of slavery to Western territories was a controversial national issue.	Weston	MA		MM		
mass_10	Some abolitionists organized rescue attempts to free fugitives held in jail.	Weston	MA	ohio_11	MM		
mass_11	Under the Fugitive Slave Law, it was illegal to assist anyone fleeing slavery.	Supporter of Law	MA	ohio_6	MM		
mass_12	Some Northerners worried that resistance to the Fugitive Slave Law would create greater political division between North and South.	Supporter of Law	MA		MM		PB: This is not very clear to me -- alienate Southerners from what? Perhaps change to: Some Northerners worried that resistance would lead to greater political divisions between the North and South.
mass_13	Unable to rely on state authorities for protection, fugitives turned to armed resistance to confront slavecatchers.	Club, Black Abolitionist	MA	penn_11	Obj, MM		
mass_14	Some Black Northerners, especially fugitives, moved to Canada to avoid kidnapping and enslavement.	Boston Abolitionist	MA	penn_12	MM		PB: Add qualifies "Some or Many Black Northerners . . ."
mass_15							
mass_16	Abolitionist organizations like Vigilance Committees monitored slavecatcher activity and resisted the enforcement of the law.	Boston Abolitionist	MA		MM		PB: Rather than "Formal" dentify them as Abolitionist organizations.
mass_17	The Fugitive Slave Law overrode state laws abolishing slavery and prohibiting the return of fugitives from slavery.	Douglas' Oration	MA	penn_13	Doc		
mass_18	Under the Fugitive Slave Law, anyone who refused to assist in the capture of an alleged fugitive could be arresed, fined, and/or sued.	Uncle Tom's Cabin	MA	penn_2	Doc		
			 				
							
definition_1	A fugitive is a person trying to escape a danger or capture; in this case, a person escaping slavery		DEF				
definition_2	Due process is the right of every citizen to a fair trial and equal legal proceedings before being deprived of life, liberty, or property		DEF				
definition_3	Habeas corpus is the right of every citizen to challenge their arrest or imprisonment.		DEF				